[Music]
welcome to slash forward the channel
will be provide summarization and
commentary for all your favorite popular
and obscure horror movies in this video
we're going to take a look at the
supernatural thriller final destination
made in the year 2000 when a group of
teens inadvertently cheat death
they're left trying to find out who's
next if there's any way to break the
cycle the end result is a series of
highly improbable and sometimes
surprising Rube Goldberg style set
pieces one advantage of this is that a
movie based around the occurrence of
unexpected and improbable circumstances
unfolding gives ample justification to
overlook inconsistencies or weaknesses
in the plot if there are any let's see
for ourselves
the movie opens on a stormy night we get
brief glimpses of expositional fragments
indicating we're being introduced to
someone preparing to take a flight to
France and based on the ever-present fan
they're doing so in a musty room we then
cut to the morning of what seems like a
fairly standard day as our main
character Alex prepares for his flight
Alex left an old flight tag on his
luggage because it was from a flight
that didn't crash since that's not how
plays works she slashes that tag right
off we find out that alex is taking a
senior trip to Paris his dad encourages
him to let loose while he's there live
it up Alex ease up there dad we don't
need anyone leaving babies behind also
is true even if you die young enjoy your
flight but not yet for some reason it's
now nighttime again
maybe because portents of doom and
despair come across creepier that way
while Alex sleeps and inexplicable
breeze rolls through his room not to be
a pessimist but it's most likely the
inescapable machinations of fate cursing
his soul as death closes in on him at
least that's my guess after several days
of introduction we finally make it to
the airport where Alex meets up with the
rest of the dudebro crew ready to
absolutely crush it in Paris Alex being
as superstitious as he is sees doom
everywhere he looks and one of the more
overt signs a harikrishna jumps out to
inform him of the nature of death thanks
for that luckily miss Luton is there too
harshly rebuff him Alex then looks
beguiled as the flight board updates
showing that his flight is set to leave
at 9:25 matching his birth date that
probably means you're gonna die we then
chew up a little runtime getting ready
for the flight the teens do teen stuff
while Alex continues to stare at things
in this case likely pondering normal
teen insecurities as he notices the
imposingly phallic nature of the plane
one of his buddies convinces him to take
a pre-flight dumper and then they begin
to board in the walkway alex is
distracted by that ass siz and he
continues to make micro observations of
details like scuffs on the plane and
other stuff as he gets himself more
worked up this kid Alice gets
friend-zoned and then increasingly
agitated as they begin takeoff they hit
a little early turbulence during takeoff
which evens itself out and then [ __ ]
goes sideways as the plane begins to
pull itself apart at 500 miles per hour
the carnage ultimately leads to an
explosion which wakes Alex and seat
apparently in the three minutes spent
boarding he hit full REM sleep but his
power nap left him feeling sweaty and
disoriented as events begin to unfold in
a way similar to his dream he becomes
more and more unsettled when even
smaller details match up like his snack
tray breaking it proves to be too much
and Alex snaps in
that's very pre 911 he's dragged off the
plane rather than shot or suffocated in
response to his freakout the ruckus
manages to pull in several of his drama
seeking peers all who get caught up in
the flight ejection this prevents the
group from being able to reboard and
unfairly penalize his Hitchcock who's
just now showing up to board after
having a hard time cut and went off in
the bathroom as they continue to fight
about their poor fortune they're treated
to a Fortran reversal when the plane
explodes in midair sad for the
passengers but hey you've cheated death
at least you can go home and relax right
naturally the group is traumatized after
this event a gentleman from the National
Transportation Agency shows up to
provide an assist checking in with how
they're doing and discussing counselling
options however this nurturing BS is too
much for the FBI agents who have some
interrogating to do so they put an end
to this and begin questioning the group
who tells them everything we just
watched the main suspect at this point
is Alex having made inappropriate
comments about what was going to happen
right before those events came true they
all go home with their families except
for clear she hitches right with Alex so
we can establish her as a moody loner
with a heart of gold
I will see 39 days later the school has
a memorial service for the classmates
and faculty lost in the crash whoever
was in charge picked perfectly as we
come to see the memorial consists of a
[ __ ] and Eagle statue and the service
involves acoustic guitar with some
classic 90s email warbling over the top
of it
[Music]
we find out that most of the schools off
put by Alex believing he had something
to do with the crash or was at least a
creepy foreteller of death don't talk to
me the hell out of me unfortunately for
his crippling loneliness most of the
other characters seemed to be as
superstitious as he is Todd gives a
moving speech about the inevitability of
death and then later presents us with
something like our fifteenth bathroom
squatting scene so far meanwhile Alex
feeling a disturbance in the universal
chi of the lower colon is accosted again
by that incessant breeze back at Todd's
bathroom he's playing grown-up at the
sink in practices shaving dreaming of
the day he'll sprout his first whisker
when he cuts himself he moves on to the
nose hairs he's really treating himself
to a variety of spa-like grooming
services today Alex throws a spank bank
which was immediately shredded a scrap
lens on his knee and instead of
something naughty it's a segment of text
that says Todd which obviously means
Todd is gonna die we cut back to Todd as
a slow water leak pursue sin through the
bathroom the water is able to cause him
to slip and fall into the tub wrapping a
cord around his neck in the process
while spilled shampoo ensures he never
gets back up he dies slowly in the tub
in an excruciatingly ly brutal manner
afterward the water recedes confirming
our suspicions of its otherworldly
nature Alex and clear:both end up at
Todd's house Todd's parents blame Alex
for Todd's death assuming it was a
suicide resulting from the guilt he felt
for leaving his brother on the plane to
go check on Alex we also find out that
clear was there because she has some
sort of connection to Alex's emotional
state assuming there's more to be
learned they break into the funeral home
to visit Todd's body because their
forensics experts they're interrupted by
candy man who wasn't mad they broke in
he's just happy to have company to talk
to so he does but only vaguely they
conclude that there's some sort of
fatalistic design at work here that's
trying to finish what they interrupted
on the plane
maybe if they know the plan they can
prevent it but they must proceed with
caution
you don't even wanna [ __ ] with the next
day we have a near convergence of
unfortunate circumstances as Carter
pulls a Huey and almost hits Hitchcock
so he can confront Alex outside a cafe
Carter's coping mechanism is overt
aggression
specifically directed at Alex his
girlfriend teri has had enough and she
has no more tolerance for anger or fear
and is ready to let go of her survivor's
guilt and move on which he manages to do
successfully for the rest of her life
Alex now scared of his apparent power
decides is better to steer clear of the
other survivors in the
he has any undue influence on the course
of their lives meanwhile the plane crash
investigators have a more complete idea
of what happened the explosion was
related to a chain reaction throughout
the fuselage Aleks recognizes that this
may indicate a possible order for the
intended sequence of their deaths now
with some direction we have a general
idea of what's to come it's just a
matter of figuring out how to stop it
having determined this Luton is next we
now turn our attention to her acting the
balls out of this phone call when she
sees outs creeping around she calls the
FBI they show up promptly and drag him
off before he has a chance to complete
his mechanical inspection of her car and
too bad because right after he's taken
miss Luton gets that familiar breeze of
the indeterminate source with that
trouble now gone she gets back to her
work she finds mom's favorite record and
proceeds to spit on her grave by putting
her fingers on the grooves meanwhile
Alex undergoes the catch and release the
FBI doesn't buy his pattern talk but
have no reason to hold him so he takes
his leave in B lines straight back to
miss Luton who's in the midst of
switching up from tea to vodka as the
mug splits and the machinations proceed
some drops of vodka spill into her
monitor causing a short in the cathode
tube blasting glass into her neck a
sequence of words unfamiliar to anyone
born in the year this movie came out
nothing teaching her a proper lesson for
dating to drink that Devils juice the
short then starts a fire that travels
along Satan's PP trail back to the vodka
bottle which then explodes if that
wasn't crazy enough the ninth block
falls in a large kitchen knife finds
purchase in her torso which is then
driven to completion by a falling chair
could death not have just given her a
heart attack or something
Alex unable to save her witnesses the
last few links in this chain of events
and then flees it just so happens that
Skeeter shows up right at this moment
then the house explodes Carter and
Hitchcock show up to the memorial and
clears request given the recent events
they're all taking this fairly seriously
now they decide they need to find Alex
to see if there's anything they can do
to prevent further deaths as I Drive
toward where they assume alex is located
clear gets out to circle around while
the boys drive on and she catches up
with Alex and gets like totally
metaphysical with him my father and my
family suggesting the fatalistic view of
death that is unfolding potentially
dictates their whole lives but according
to the many worlds theory exists
place where my dad is still safe so like
it sucks to die here but you may be
alive there which isn't the same you but
it's you in essence so you can take
solace a version of you with whom you
share no experiences lives on somewhere
Alex joins the group and Carter decides
to take control of his fate but only
manages to confirm that this is out of
their hands as he leaves untold numbers
of car wrecks in his wake
but emerges from the carnage unscathed
Carter can't decide whether he's coming
or going as he patiently awaits an
oncoming train but then changes his mind
only to find himself stuck Alice gets
him out just in time and they all stare
in amazement at this fortunate turn of
events the feeling cheated death ensures
that Hitchcock will never again have to
risk a bad haircut
by finally taking some sort of action in
response to the portents of death Alex
has a revelation he recognizes that
while death wasn't totally avoided the
order was skipped he's not totally sure
how they can use this information yet
but acknowledges that he's next and so
he goes off to hide in the secluded
cabin that he's baby-proofed with
copious quantities of corks and duct
tape he spends his days eating canned
crap and preventing unnecessarily
complex access from happening since this
won't serve to kick off the finale clear
decides she's ready to take action as
well and tells the FBI agents of Alex's
location at the same time Alex realizes
he got the death order wrong due to his
seat change on the plane and that clears
next in line
Alex determined to reach her very slowly
gets away in a canoe which surprisingly
works with Alex on the way the universe
decides that it's now clears turned and
attempts to lure her into danger by
threatening her dog despite several
missteps both she and Alex are able to
barely fumble their way into a situation
wherein she's locked in a car with a
live power line dancing on her hood
deciding to break the order to save
clear he plans to sacrifice himself he
says his final goodbyes
oh just not in the sense of being alive
and he grabs the line clear is able to
get free as the neighborhood Power Grid
drains into his body fortunately as we
learned from Jurassic Park massive
electrical shocks rarely results in more
than a mild inconvenience I'm not even
sure why death bothered with this method
in the first place and we cut to six
months later Alex Carter and clear are
all alive and well in France and
apparently close friends as a result of
their shared trauma even though they're
in relaxation mode Alex can't help
himself and tries to fill the final plat
hole by pointing out that the death
cycle hasn't been totally broken because
no one intervened for him he attempts to
run off to where we can't be sure when
Carter tries to stop him he saves him by
accident putting himself on the chopping
block so who's next
and there you have it
fate rules our lives except when we
intervene in a way that conforms to the
pre-existing rules and we don't know
about upfront and have no direct access
to but can sometimes into it if we're
lucky enough to have special
extrasensory powers or something like I
said it's probably best not to think
about it too hard in a world where
almost everything that happens to us is
our destiny seemingly unlikely
circumstances can be forgiven because it
plays into the theme it's easy to see
and appreciate what they're trying to do
here and it results in a fun diversion
from standard horror movie formulas at
the time I'm sure as a series goes along
we'll get more interesting and elaborate
deaths with fewer attempts to expand and
explain the rules which I'm looking
forward to I hope you enjoy the video
thanks for watching
[Music]